In this video, we are going to add
some more router to our topology.
Let’s add 3 more router, so we will have 5
router in the topology. Let’s just start.
We will use 2691 series.
We can add some router at once by using shift,
so here shift and then drag and drop the router.
Here we can type how many router that we
want to import. Let’s import 3 router here.
Here we can see that we import 3 router at once.
this is router 1, router 2, router 3, router 4,
and this is router5.
Let’s connecting router 3 to the switch,
router 4 to the switch and router 5 to the switch.
Next let’s configure the ip address for router 3
4 and 5. And we also need to configure ssh
so we can remote the router from ubuntu server.
Let’s just start, start the router,
Here router 3, the ip address will be
10.10.10.3/24, router4 will be 10.10.10.4/24,
and router5 will be 10.10.10.5/24.
Let’s configure on router 3 first,
configure terminal, the interface is fa0/0,
so here interface fa0/0, no shutdown, and
the ip address is 10.10.10.3 255.255.255.0
Let’s ping to router 1, ping 10.10.10.1,
okay this is success, ping to ubuntu server do
ping 10.10.10.254. okay this is also success.
Next let’s configure ssh. Configure domain
name first, ip domain-name mydomain.local,
Next, let’s create the key, crypto
key generate rsa, the modulus is 1024.
Next let’s create username and password,
username cisco privilege 15 secret cisco.
Last let’s configure the vty,
line vty 0 15, login local.
Okay we have done configuring ssh on router 3.
Let’s try to remote the
router3 from ubuntu server.
Here let’s exit first. Now we are in the
mac os, let’s remote to ubuntu server,
ssh ubuntu and then the ip address of
ubuntu server, which is 192.168.56.2.
Okay we are success remote the ubuntu
server, next, let’s try to ping to router 3.
Ping 10.10.10.3, okay this is success, now let’s
try to remote router 3, ssh cisco@10.10.10.3
Okay we are success remote
router 3 from ubuntu server.
Last, don’t forget to save
the cisco configuration.
So when we close the gns3, the cisco
configuration will not gone, do write.
Okay I think enough for this video,
for router 4 and router 5 you can configure
the ip address and ssh by your self.
Thank you for watching and
see you on the next video.